Introducing new ClusterAffinityRule commands (#3525)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-powershell-docs: docset/winserver2022-ps/failoverclusters/Set-ClusterAffinityRule.md

---
description: Set-ClusterAffinityRule
external help file: ClusterAffinityRule.cdxml-help.xml
Module Name: FailoverClusters
ms.date: 07/27/2023
online version: https://learn.microsoft.com/powershell/module/failoverclusters/set-clusteraffinityrule?view=windowsserver2022-ps&wt.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Set-ClusterAffinityRule
---

# Set-ClusterAffinityRule

## SYNOPSIS

> Enabled or Disable an affinity rule, and update the rule type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable or disable an affinity rule, and update the rule type.
```

## SYNTAX

### Query (cdxml) (Default)

```
Set-ClusterAffinityRule [[-Name] <String[]>] [-RuleType <RuleType>] [-Enabled <UInt32>]
 [-CimSession <CimSession[]>] [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InputObject (cdxml)

```
Set-ClusterAffinityRule -InputObject <CimInstance[]> [-RuleType <RuleType>] [-Enabled <UInt32>]
 [-CimSession <CimSession[]>] [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

> This cmdlet is used to Enabled or Disable an affinity rule. This can also be used to change the
> RuleType.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Set-ClusterAffinityRule` can enable or disable an existing affinity rule. It can also change
the **RuleType**.
```

> ## EXAMPLES

Reviewer: Can we add examples for disabling a rule and changing the rule type? It would also be useful to show how you can use this cmdlet in the pipeline.

> ### Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example 1 - Enable an affinity rule
```

```powershell
Set-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Enabled -Cluster Cluster1
```

This example enables the cluster affinity rule named AffinityRule1.

## PARAMETERS

### -AsJob

Runs the cmdlet as a background job. Use this parameter to run commands that take a long time to
complete.

The cmdlet immediately returns an object that represents the job and then displays the command
prompt. You can continue to work in the session while the job completes. To manage the job, use the
`*-Job` cmdlets. To get the job results, use the
[Receive-Job](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113372) cmdlet.

> For more information about Windows PowerShell background jobs, see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about PowerShell background jobs, see
```

[about_Jobs](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113251).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CimSession

Runs the cmdlet in a remote session or on a remote computer. Enter a computer name or a session
object, such as the output of a [New-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227967)
or [Get-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227966) cmdlet. The default is the
current session on the local computer.

```yaml
Type: CimSession[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Session

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Enabled

> Enables or disables the affinity rule.

Reviewer: Can you add some further explanation to this parameter? The listed type is an integer - is `0` disabled and `1` enabled? What if I specify `100`?

```yaml
Type: UInt32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

> Specifies the input object that is used in a pipeline command.

Reviewer: Can this be made specific to the cmdlet? It seems like the input object here would be a rule object.

---
description: Set-ClusterAffinityRule
external help file: ClusterAffinityRule.cdxml-help.xml
Module Name: FailoverClusters
ms.date: 07/27/2023
online version: https://learn.microsoft.com/powershell/module/failoverclusters/set-clusteraffinityrule?view=windowsserver2022-ps&wt.mc_id=ps-gethelp
schema: 2.0.0
title: Set-ClusterAffinityRule
---

# Set-ClusterAffinityRule

## SYNOPSIS
Enable or disable an affinity rule, and update the rule type.

## SYNTAX

### Query (cdxml) (Default)

```
Set-ClusterAffinityRule [[-Name] <String[]>] [-RuleType <RuleType>] [-Enabled <UInt32>]
 [-CimSession <CimSession[]>] [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

### InputObject (cdxml)

```
Set-ClusterAffinityRule -InputObject <CimInstance[]> [-RuleType <RuleType>] [-Enabled <UInt32>]
 [-CimSession <CimSession[]>] [-ThrottleLimit <Int32>] [-AsJob] [-PassThru] [<CommonParameters>]
```

## DESCRIPTION

> The `Set-ClusterAffinityRule` command can enable or disable an existing affinity rule. It can also
> change the **RuleType**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Set-ClusterAffinityRule` cmdlet can enable or disable an existing affinity rule. It can also
change the **RuleType**.
```

## EXAMPLES

### Example 1 - Enable an affinity rule

```powershell

> Set-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Enabled

Reviewer: Based on the parameter docs, this expects an actual value - or does your example work? If so, this parameter has strange metadata.

```suggestion
Set-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Enabled $true
```

Author: Good spot, this didn't work.

```

This example enables the cluster affinity rule named `AffinityRule1`.

### Example 2 - Disable an affinity rule

```powershell

> Set-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Enabled:$false

Reviewer: Same point as above
```suggestion
Set-ClusterAffinityRule -Name AffinityRule1 -Enabled $false
```

Author: This did work interestingly. I've accepted the suggestion for consistency though!

[about_Jobs](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113251).

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -CimSession

Runs the cmdlet in a remote session or on a remote computer. Enter a computer name or a session
object, such as the output of a [New-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227967)
or [Get-CimSession](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=227966) cmdlet. The default is the
current session on the local computer.

```yaml
Type: CimSession[]
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases: Session

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Enabled

Enables or disables the affinity rule. The accepted values for this parameter are:

- `0` or `$false`. The affinity rule is disabled.
- `1` or `$true`. The affinity rule is enabled.

```yaml
Type: UInt32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -InputObject

> Specifies the affinity rule object that is used in a pipeline command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifies the affinity rule object to change. The value must be an object representing an affinity
rule, like the output that the `Get-ClusterAffinityRule` cmdlet returns.
```

```yaml
Type: CimInstance[]
Parameter Sets: InputObject (cdxml)
Aliases:

Required: True
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByValue)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -Name

> The name of the affinity rule you want to change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of the affinity rule to change.
```

```yaml
Type: String[]
Parameter Sets: Query (cdxml)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: 0
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: True (ByPropertyName)
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -PassThru

Returns an the original object passed to the command. By default, this cmdlet doesn't generate any
output.

```yaml
Type: SwitchParameter
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -RuleType

The affinity type to set the rule to. The valid values for this parameter are:

> - `SameFaultDomain`. Resources must stay within the same fault domain.
> - `SameNode`. Resources must stay on the same cluster node.
> - `DifferentFaultDomain`. Resources must stay in different fault domain (anti-affinity).
> - `DifferentNode`. Resources must stay on different cluster nodes (anti-affinity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `SameFaultDomain` - Resources must stay within the same fault domain.
- `SameNode` - Resources must stay on the same cluster node.
- `DifferentFaultDomain` - Resources must stay in different fault domain (anti-affinity).
- `DifferentNode` - Resources must stay on different cluster nodes (anti-affinity).
```

Type: RuleType
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:
Accepted values: SameFaultDomain, SameNode, DifferentFaultDomain, DifferentNode

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### -ThrottleLimit

Specifies the maximum number of concurrent operations that can be established to run the cmdlet. If
this parameter is omitted or a value of `0` is entered, then PowerShell calculates an optimum
throttle limit for the cmdlet based on the number of CIM cmdlets that are running on the computer.
The throttle limit applies only to the current cmdlet, not to the session or to the computer.

```yaml
Type: Int32
Parameter Sets: (All)
Aliases:

Required: False
Position: Named
Default value: None
Accept pipeline input: False
Accept wildcard characters: False
```

### CommonParameters

This cmdlet supports the common parameters: -Debug, -ErrorAction, -ErrorVariable,
-InformationAction, -InformationVariable, -OutVariable, -OutBuffer, -PipelineVariable, -Verbose,
-WarningAction, and -WarningVariable. For more information, see
[about_CommonParameters](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=113216).

## INPUTS

### System.String[]

> When a string is piped to this cmdlet, the value is use as the name of the affinity rule to remove.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a string is piped to this cmdlet, the value is used as the name of the affinity rule to
change.
```

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance[]

This cmdlet accepts CIM instance objects representing an affinity rule like those returned by the
[Get-ClusterAffinityRule](Get-ClusterAffinityRule.md) cmdlet.

## OUTPUTS

### None

> The cmdlet doesn't generate any output unless you use the **PassThru** parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the cmdlet doesn't return any output.
```

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance

### Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance#root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule

> The **Microsoft.Management.Infrastructure.CimInstance** object is a wrapper class that displays
> Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) objects. The command returns an object representing an
> affinity rule as a CIM instance within the `root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule` path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the **PassThru** parameter is specified, the cmdlet returns an object representing an affinity
rule as a CIM instance within the `root/MSCLUSTER/MSCluster_AffinityRule` path.
```
